partition: add doc for global index (#17979)
pingcap/docs: partitioned-table.md

ERROR 1503 (HY000): A UNIQUE INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

#### Global Index

If you need to create unique indexes that **don't include all the columns used in the partition expressions**, you can achieve this by enabling the [tidb_enable_global_index](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) variable.

Previously an index on partitioned tables are created for each partition, which is the reason for the limitation that all unique keys needs to include all partitioning columns. Since the uniqueness can only be enforced within each partition. A global index will be created on table level, so it can enforce uniqueness regardless of partitioning. Note that this has implications on partitioning management, DROP, TRUNCATE, REORGANIZE PARTITION will need to also manage the table level global index.

After enabling this variable, any unique index created by the user that does not meet the above constraint will automatically be a global index.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
partitioned-table.md: 1673: MD012/no-multiple-blanks Multiple consecutive blank lines [Expected: 1; Actual: 2]
partitioned-table.md: 1693: MD012/no-multiple-blanks Multiple consecutive blank lines [Expected: 1; Actual: 2]
```

```sql
SET tidb_enable_global_index = ON;

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    col3 INT NOT NULL,
    col4 INT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE KEY uidx12(col1, col2),
    UNIQUE KEY uidx3(col3)
)
PARTITION BY HASH(col3)
PARTITIONS 4;
```

In the example above, the unique index `uidx12` will be implicitly a global index, but `uidx3` remains a regular unique index.

It should be noted that a **clustered index** cannot be a global index:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```sql
SET tidb_enable_global_index = ON;

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (col2) clustered
) PARTITION BY HASH(col1) PARTITIONS 5;

ERROR 1503 (HY000): A CLUSTERED INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

The reason is that if the clustered index is a global index, the table will no longer be partitioned. This is because the key of the clustered index is also the record key which means it should be partition level, but the global index is on table level, which creates a conflict.

Users can identify a global index by querying the [`information_schema`.`tidb_indexes`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-indexes.md) table, aside from checking the table structure.

```sql
SELECT * FROM information_schema.tidb_indexes WHERE table_name='t1';

> +--------------+------------+------------+----------+--------------+-------------+----------+---------------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

```
+--------------+------------+------------+----------+--------------+-------------+----------+---------------+------------+----------+------------+-----------+-----------+
````

Author: What is the standard for separating sql and result?

Reviewer: What I have been using is to have a code block for the statement (language set to sql) and a separate code block for the output. Note that that the "copyable" isn't needed anymore.

The output should be from a regular MySQL Client.

@Oreoxmt @hfxsd etc might have more details on this.

Author: Should we split https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/17979/files#diff-20864a53c3332130114abe4d0bd81371983d49d5ad8cc6f11efd17e06ddc5302R1692 this sql block?

Reviewer: @Defined2014 Yes indeed

After enabling this variable, any unique index created by the user that does not meet the above constraint will automatically be converted into a global index.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
set tidb_enable_global_index = true;

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    col3 INT NOT NULL,
    col4 INT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE KEY uidx12(col1, col2),
    UNIQUE KEY uidx3(col3)
)

PARTITION BY HASH(col3)
PARTITIONS 4;
```

In the example above, the unique index `uidx12` will be implicitly converted to a global index, but `uidx3` remains a regular unique index.

It should be noted that a **clustered index** cannot be a global index:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
set tidb_enable_global_index = true;

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (col2) clustered
) PARTITION BY HASH(col1) PARTITIONS 5;
```

```sql
ERROR 1503 (HY000): A CLUSTERED INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

> 

Author: Updated, @mjonss

ERROR 1503 (HY000): A UNIQUE INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

#### Global Index

If you need to create unique indexes that **don't include all the columns used in the partition expressions**, you can achieve this by enabling the [tidb_enable_global_index](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) variable.

> Previously an index on partitioned tables are created for each partition, which is the reason for the limitation that all unique keys needs to include all partitioning columns. Since the uniqueness can only be enforced within each partition. A global index will be created on table level, so it can enforce uniqueness regardless of partitioning. Note that this has implications on partitioning management, DROP, TRUNCATE, REORGANIZE PARTITION will need to also manage the table level global index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously an index on partitioned tables are created for each partition, which is the reason for the limitation that all unique keys need to include all partitioning columns. The uniqueness can only be enforced within each partition. A global index will be created on table level, so it can enforce uniqueness regardless of partitioning. Note that this has implications on partitioning management, `DROP`, `TRUNCATE`, and `REORGANIZE PARTITION` will also need to manage the table level global index.
```

> Previously an index on partitioned tables are created for each partition, which is the reason for the limitation that all unique keys need to include all partitioning columns. The uniqueness can only be enforced within each partition. A global index will be created on table level, so it can enforce uniqueness regardless of partitioning. Note that this has implications on partitioning management, `DROP`, `TRUNCATE`, and `REORGANIZE PARTITION` will also need to manage the table level global index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously an index on partitioned tables are created for each partition, which is the reason for the limitation that all unique keys need to include all partition keys. The uniqueness can only be enforced within each partition. A global index will be created on table level, so it can enforce uniqueness regardless of partitioning. Note that this has implications on partitioning management, `DROP`, `TRUNCATE`, and `REORGANIZE PARTITION` will also need to manage the table level global index.
```

Reviewer 3: The full text should be same as [here](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/partitioned-table#partitioning-keys-primary-keys-and-unique-keys):
Every unique key on the table must use every column in the table's partitioning expression.
So I will add a link and update to the exact same wording.

> After enabling this variable, any unique index created by the user that does not meet the above constraint will automatically be a global index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After enabling this variable, any unique index that does not meet the preceding constraint will automatically be a global index.
```

```sql
SET tidb_enable_global_index = ON;

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    col3 INT NOT NULL,
    col4 INT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE KEY uidx12(col1, col2),
    UNIQUE KEY uidx3(col3)
)
PARTITION BY HASH(col3)
PARTITIONS 4;
```

> In the example above, the unique index `uidx12` will be implicitly a global index, but `uidx3` remains a regular unique index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the unique index `uidx12` will be implicitly a global index, but `uidx3` remains a regular unique index.
```

> It should be noted that a **clustered index** cannot be a global index:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that a **clustered index** cannot be a global index, as shown in the following example:
```

```sql
SET tidb_enable_global_index = ON;

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (col2) clustered
) PARTITION BY HASH(col1) PARTITIONS 5;
```

```
ERROR 1503 (HY000): A CLUSTERED INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

> The reason is that if the clustered index is a global index, the table will no longer be partitioned. This is because the key of the clustered index is also the record key which means it should be partition level, but the global index is on table level, which creates a conflict.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reason is that if the clustered index is a global index, the table will no longer be partitioned. This is because the key of the clustered index is also the record key, which means it should be partition level. But the global index is on table level, which causes a conflict.
```

> Users can identify a global index by querying the [`information_schema`.`tidb_indexes`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-indexes.md) table, aside from checking the table structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can identify a global index by querying the [`information_schema.tidb_indexes`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-indexes.md) table and checking the table structure.
```

ERROR 1503 (HY000): A UNIQUE INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

#### Global Index

If you need to create unique indexes that **don't include all the columns used in the partition expressions**, you can achieve this by enabling the [tidb_enable_global_index](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_global_index-new-in-v760) variable.

Previously an index on partitioned tables are created for each partition, which is the reason for the limitation that all unique keys needs to include all partitioning columns. Since the uniqueness can only be enforced within each partition. A global index will be created on table level, so it can enforce uniqueness regardless of partitioning. Note that this has implications on partitioning management, DROP, TRUNCATE, REORGANIZE PARTITION will need to also manage the table level global index.

After enabling this variable, any unique index created by the user that does not meet the above constraint will automatically be a global index.

> {{< copyable "sql" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```sql

> set tidb_enable_global_index = true;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET tidb_enable_global_index = ON;
```

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    col3 INT NOT NULL,
    col4 INT NOT NULL,
    UNIQUE KEY uidx12(col1, col2),
    UNIQUE KEY uidx3(col3)
)
PARTITION BY HASH(col3)
PARTITIONS 4;
```

In the example above, the unique index `uidx12` will be implicitly a global index, but `uidx3` remains a regular unique index.

It should be noted that a **clustered index** cannot be a global index:

> {{< copyable "sql" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```sql

> set tidb_enable_global_index = true;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET tidb_enable_global_index = ON;
```

CREATE TABLE t1 (
    col1 INT NOT NULL,
    col2 DATE NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (col2) clustered
) PARTITION BY HASH(col1) PARTITIONS 5;

> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ```sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

ERROR 1503 (HY000): A CLUSTERED INDEX must include all columns in the table's partitioning function
```

The reason is that if the clustered index is a global index, the table will no longer be partitioned. This is because the key of the clustered index is also the record key which means it should be partition level, but the global index is on table level, which creates a conflict.

> Users can identify a global index by querying the `information_schema`.`tidb_indexes` table, aside from checking the table structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can identify a global index by querying the [`information_schema`.`tidb_indexes`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-indexes.md) table, aside from checking the table structure.
```

```sql

> mysql> select * from information_schema.tidb_indexes where table_name='t1';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT * FROM information_schema.tidb_indexes WHERE table_name='t1';
```

1. SQL keywords should be uppercase
2. Don't include the `mysql> ` prompt in the SQL code section
3. The output should be in a separate code block
